Update docs to deprecate V1 and add basic V2 job (#229)
smartcontractkit/documentation: docs/Oracle Jobs/jobs.md

---
layout: nodes.liquid
date: Last Modified
title: "Jobs"
permalink: "docs/jobs/"
whatsnext: {"Tasks":"/docs/tasks/"}
---

## What is a Job?

NOTE: This page refers to the latest version of Chainlink jobs (otherwise known as TOML, or V2 jobs). For documentation on the legacy job format, see [V1 job specs](/docs/job-specifications).

> Chainlink nodes require jobs to be added in order to do anything useful. There are various job types, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chainlink nodes require jobs to be added to do anything useful, for example, generating verifiable randomness or posting asset price data on-chain. There are various job types, including:
```

- `cron`
- `directrequest`
- `fluxmonitor`
- `keeper`
- `offchainreporting`

> - `randomnesslog`

Reviewer 2: s/randomnesslog/vrf/g

Author: We probably ought to remove it entirely

- `maxTaskDuration`: the default maximum duration that any given task is allowed to run. If the duration is exceeded, the task is errored. This value can be overridden per-task (see subsequent sections).

### Cron

Executes a job on a schedule. Does not rely on any kind of external trigger.

```toml
type            = "cron"
schemaVersion   = 1
schedule        = "0 0 0 1 1 *"
observationSource   = """
ds          [type=http method=GET url="https://chain.link/ETH-USD"];
ds_parse    [type=jsonparse path="data,price"];
ds_multiply [type=multiply times=100];
ds -> ds_parse -> ds_multiply;
"""
```

- `schedule`: the frequency with which the job is to be run, specified in traditional UNIX cron format (but with 6 fields, not 5. The extra field allows for "seconds" granularity). You can also use e.g. `@every 1h` if you just want something executed on a regular interval, but the wall clock time is not important.

For all supported schedules, please refer to the [cron library documentation](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/robfig/cron?utm_source=godoc).

### Direct request (eth log)

> 

Reviewer 3: What's the replacement for RunLog in a new version?

Reviewer 2: This job type replaces both runlog and ethlog. There's a discussion around whether we rename it to ethlog as thats just a better/more descriptive name than directrequest

observationSource   = """
    ds1          [type=http method=GET url="http://example.com"]; 
    ds1_parse    [type=jsonparse path="USD"];
    ds1_multiply [type=multiply times=100];
    ds1 -> ds1_parse -> ds1_multiply;
"""
```

- `contractAddress`: the Oracle or Operator contract to monitor for requests.
- `jobID`: the unique, global ID of the job.

### Flux Monitor

The Flux Monitor job type is for continually-updating data feeds that aggregate responses from multiple oracles. The oracles servicing the feed submit rounds based on several triggers:

- An occasional poll, which must show that there has been sufficient deviation from an off-chain data source before a new result is submitted
- A heartbeat (the "idle timer"), which ensures that even if no deviation occurs, we submit a new result to prove liveness.
- New rounds initiated by other oracles on the feeds. If another oracle notices sufficient deviation, all other oracles will submit their current observations as well.

```toml
type              = "fluxmonitor"
schemaVersion     = 1
name              = "example flux monitor spec"
contractAddress   = "0x3cCad4715152693fE3BC4460591e3D3Fbd071b42"

> precision = 2

Reviewer 2: precision no longer exists

threshold = 0.5
absoluteThreshold = 0.0 # optional

idleTimerPeriod = "1s"
idleTimerDisabled = false

pollTimerPeriod = "1m"
pollTimerDisabled = false

observationSource = """
// data source 1
ds1 [type=http method=GET url="https://pricesource1.com" requestData="{\\"coin\\": \\"ETH\\", \\"market\\": \\"USD\\"}"];
ds1_parse [type=jsonparse path="latest"];

// data source 2
ds2 [type=http method=GET url="https://pricesource1.com" requestData="{\\"coin\\": \\"ETH\\", \\"market\\": \\"USD\\"}"];
ds2_parse [type=jsonparse path="latest"];

ds1 -> ds1_parse -> answer1;
ds2 -> ds2_parse -> answer1;

answer1 [type=median index=0];
"""
```

- `contractAddress`: the address of the FluxAggregator contract that manages the feed.

> - `precision`: the number of decimal places to be associated the integer value submitted on-chain.

Reviewer 2: ditto - remove

- `keyBundleID`: the hash of the OCR key bundle to be used by this node (the Chainlink node keystore manages these key bundles — use the subcommands under `chainlink keys ocr` to interact with them or use the Operator UI).
- `monitoringEndpoint`: the URL of the telemetry endpoint to send OCR metrics to.
- `transmitterAddress`: the Ethereum address from which to send aggregated submissions to the OCR contract.
- `observationTimeout`: the maximum duration to wait before an off-chain request for data is considered to be failed/unfulfillable.
- `blockchainTimeout`: the maximum duration to wait before an on-chain request for data is considered to be failed/unfulfillable.
- `contractConfigTrackerSubscribeInterval`: the interval at which to retry subscribing to on-chain config changes if a subscription has not yet successfully been made.
- `contractConfigTrackerPollInterval`: the interval at which to proactively poll the on-chain config for changes.
- `contractConfigConfirmations`: the number of blocks to wait after an on-chain config change before considering it worthy of acting upon.

### VRF

```toml

> uuid = "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426655440000"

Reviewer 2: this is now called ```externalJobID``` and is a universal parameter across all V2 specs. Probably deserves its own little blurb something like 

The externalJobID is a optionally user-specified way to deterministically provide an ID of a job. Say for example you want to run the same directrequest job on two different chainlink nodes which have different bridge names. Although the actually spec contents differ slightly, you can use the same externalJobID on both, specify that in your on-chain requests and both nodes will pick it up. If you do not provide one, one will be generated by the node.

type = "randomnesslog"
schemaVersion = 1
name = "vrf-primary"
coordinatorAddress = "0xaba5edc1a551e55b1a570c0e1f1055e5be11eca7"
confirmations = 6
publicKey = "0x79BE667EF9DCBBAC55A06295CE870B07029BFCDB2DCE28D959F2815B16F8179800"
observationSource="""

> getrandomvalue [type=vrf];

Reviewer 2: this might change quite soon, I'd hold off on merging this until we have tested it using ethtx tasks

"""
```

- `uuid`: the globally-unique ID of the job. User-specified or randomly-generated.
- `coordinatorAddress`: the address of the VRFCoordinator contract coordinating requests and responses for randomness.
- `confirmations`: the number of blocks to wait before a request is considered final enough to be worth responding to.
- `publicKey`: the public key of the VRF keypair securing the randomness response.

---

> ## Writing pipelines

Reviewer: Does this section fit here, or could we make it its own page?

Author: IMO it can go here for now. We will be fleshing this out more in future.

Pipelines are composed of tasks arranged in a DAG (directed acyclic graph) expressed in DOT syntax:

[DOT (graph description language) - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DOT_%28graph_description_language%29#Directed_graphs)

Each node in the graph is a task, and has both a user-specified ID as well as a set of configuration parameters/attributes:

```dot
my_fetch_task [type="http" method="get" url="https://chain.link/eth_usd"]
```

The edges between tasks define how data flows from one task to the next. Some tasks can have multiple inputs (such as `median`), while others are limited to 0 (`http`) or 1 (`jsonparse`).

```dot
data_source_1  [type="http" method="get" url="https://chain.link/eth_usd"]
data_source_2  [type="http" method="get" url="https://coingecko.com/eth_usd"]
medianize_data [type="median"]
submit_to_ea   [type="bridge" name="my_bridge"]

data_source_1 -> medianize_data
data_source_2 -> medianize_data
medianize_data -> submit_to_ea
```

> ![DAG Example](./dag_example.png)

Reviewer: This image isn't showing on my local or the generated preview. I believe assets like this are stored in `_src/images/`.

Author: Good catch

Reviewer 3: I think the image still doesn't show up

> ![DAG Example](dag_example.png)

Reviewer 3: This should be: 
![DAG Example](/images/dag_example.png)

And can we create a task for the design team to create this image in the our brand style?

Author: I can't figure out how to get this link to work.
